They're too strong!
How are we supposed to…?
You're right. At this rate…
Hokage, your fighting is getting sloppy!
It might not kill you, but keep fighting like that and
you'll only exhaust yourself.
I'm putting my life on the line for this battle!
There is no other way!
Hokage!
No…
Damn! How could I…
have fallen prey to Sharingan Genjutsu?
Release!
Thanks, Tsuchikage.
Damn that Ohnoki…
His wisdom in battle is beginning to show…
He stopped Susano'o with the Weighted Boulder Jutsu…
and saved the Raikage.
Stand, my fellow Kage!
No more weakness!
Let us look death in the face together!
We are the Five Kage!
So choose final words that will not shame your title!
Remember the battle that we entrusted to Naruto!
He entrusted this battle to us
and we swore that we would win, no matter what!
And there is one more thing…
We cannot betray the trust of each and every shinobi.
We must be worthy of the title of Kage!
So the problem is… Ohnoki, after all.
I have no choice but to break his will.
I Will Love You Always More, Princess!
You don't have to tell me!
There's not much chakra left!
We must consider this our last stand.
Particle Style! Boundary Dismantling Jutsu!
Releasing Susano'o kept me from absorbing the Particle Style…
I told you the only thing that will work against me are physical attacks.
You think you've eliminated the clones,
and distracted me with the Particle Style?
It's not just sand!
If you don't like the sand, just stop absorbing the jutsu!
But then, the Lightning Water Dragon will paralyze you.
And I'll use that moment to wedge him in with my Particle Style!
That will give us enough time to seal him away!
Do you see this?
This is the full power of the Five Kage!
I see…
This truly is worthy of the shinobi who bear the name Kage.
Then I, Madara Uchiha, shall also respond with full power!
The Five Kage are nothing compared to me.
This is… my Perfect Susano'o!
It's massive.
Is this…
the True Susano'o?
Not quite yet…
Settle down!
The big one's chakra has settled down…
I can't believe the difference in power…
I can't believe Grandfather fought someone like him!
I already told you…
Hashirama was the only one who could stop me.
But he's no longer here.
Though you could say that actually works in your favor.
That's because…
It's just me…
So the maps will only need to be redrawn a little.
Impossible! He split the mountain!
This is…Madara Uchiha…
Then why back then…?
Why did you hold back against us?
What adult goes full force when fighting mere children?
Besides… Are you finished now?
We may be stumbling in the dark,
but we're close to the light at the end of the tunnel!
Here, of all places…
This Susano'o is destruction incarnate.
A single stroke of the blade contains enough power
to smash all things in this universe.
It rivals even the Tailed Beasts!
Take your philosophy, Five Kage,
and be crushed and be gone!
Ne, Ushi, Saru, Tora, Tatsu, I… [Rat, Ox, Monkey, Tiger, Dragon, Boar…]
That's it, huh…
All right… Ne… [Rat]
Ushi… [Ox]
Saru… [Monkey]
I guess… it won't matter what I say, will it?
When I saw you… I followed you in order to confirm
whether or not Tobi and Danzo spoke the truth.
But that wasn't all I confirmed.
When I'm with you, the past comes flooding back.
The feelings I had as a child, of adoration for my big brother.
That's why…
the closer I get to you and how we used to be back then,
the more I understand you.
And the more I hate the Leaf Village for causing you so much pain!
I hate it more than ever!
I know what you want me to do.
And because you're my big brother, you'll disapprove.
It's because I'm your brother that, no matter what you say,
you're not going to stop me!
Even if you protect the village now… I will still destroy it someday.
Tora… [Tiger]
Tatsu… [Dragon]
Goodbye.
I… [Boar]
Reanimation Jutsu… Release!
Big Brother…
Lord Tsuchikage…
It's unfortunate… But I think this is the end.
Silence, Mizukage!
I'm not giving up yet!
What's going on?
Did something happen to the Jutsu Caster?
There's still time…
I feel like my consciousness is slowly fading…
I need to tell you everything before we part.
There's no need to lie anymore.
The night I left you,
I did do everything Danzo and Tobi told you.
I'll show you…the whole truth.
These are… Itachi's memories!
It no longer looks like the Uchiha coup d'etat can be prevented.
And if civil war erupts in the Leaf, other nations are certain to invade.
Real war will break out.
When I tried to stop the coup d'etat with the Kotoamatsukami,
Danzo stole my right eye.
He doesn't trust me.
He intends to protect the village his way,
no matter what it takes or how it looks.
I suspect he'll come after my left eye as well.
So I want to give it to you before he has a chance.
Shisui…
You're the only person I can count on, my best friend.
Please protect this village… and the honor of the Uchiha name.
We cannot allow such a thing!
If they are going to start a revolution and usurp our power,
we have no choice but to judge the Uchiha
as traitors of the Leaf!
Wait, Koharu.
Don't rush to such a decision.
But Hiruzen, the Uchiha Clan will not be dissuaded.
We must take measures to avoid mayhem.
And that includes innocent children.
Do not say such things before Itachi.
Besides, taking on the Uchiha will be no easy task.
There's got to be some sort of strategy we can use!
We have no time to waste.
We must strike preemptively.
If we join forces with our respective ANBU Black Ops
and launch a surprise attack from behind,
it will be over in no time.
The Uchiha are old comrades in arms.
I want to settle this with words first before force.
I will come up with a strategy.
Itachi…
Buy me some time, however little it may be.
Despite what Lord Third said,
he will move to protect the Leaf if push comes to shove.
That's the kind of man he is.
In which case even Hiruzen, as Hokage,
will have no choice but to take decisive measures.
Whether it results in war or not, the moment the coup d'etat happens,
the Uchiha will lock themselves into a fate of annihilation.
Including your innocent little brother.
However, there is a way to spare just your little brother
prior to the coup d'etat.
If things come to pass,
your brother will likely come to know the truth.
And if he witnesses Leaf Shinobi slaughter his entire clan,
it will give him a vengeful heart towards the Leaf.
And then unfortunately, he will have to die as well.
Is that a threat?
No, I just want you to make a choice.
Either align with the Uchiha,
launch the coup d'etat, and die along with your clan…
Or side with the Leaf,
save your little brother before the coup d'etat
and then help us eliminate all other Uchiha.
No matter what,
things must be quelled before any mayhem can arise
in order to protect the village.
And the only shinobi who can be entrusted with this mission…
is you, a double agent for both the Uchiha and the Leaf.
There is no one else…Itachi.
This will be the most painful mission for you.
But on the other hand,
it will allow your little brother to be spared.
I know you care about the village as much as I…
Will you accept this mission?
How do you know about me?
You slipped through extra tight Leaf Security
and went to examine Nakano Shrine's secret stone tablet.
Only the Uchiha know its location.
Since then, I've kept an eye on your movements,
and looked into what kind of character you are and what your ideology is.
Well then, that saves me time.
For you already know that I bear hatred
towards both the Leaf and my own clan…
I have terms.
I will help you exact revenge upon the Uchiha Clan.
But you are not to harm the village itself.
Nor…Sasuke Uchiha.
I regret now,
not telling you everything before it had come to this.
I see… So you've aligned with the other side?
Father, Mother…
I… I know, Itachi.
Itachi, just promise me this.
Take care of Sasuke.
I will.
Do not fear.
This is the path you have chosen.
Compared to you, our pain will be over in an instant.
Even if our philosophies differ, I am proud of you.
You are truly a kind child.
There's nothing more to say.
I have told you the whole truth. I won't have to ever again…
I always lied to you and asked you to forgive me.
Deliberately keeping you at a distance by my own hand.
All because I didn't want you to get caught up in any of this.
But now, I believe…
that perhaps you could have changed
Father, Mother, and the rest of the Uchiha.
If I had been open with you from the start…
and looked you straight in the eyes and told you the truth,
then I wouldn't have had to stand before you,
from above, as a failure, telling you all of this.
So this time, I want to impart this truth to you…
You don't ever have to forgive me.
And no matter what you do from here on out, know this…
I will love you always.
Naruto, the Jinchuriki are gonna quit it!
Looks like Itachi did it!
Thanks, Itachi!
Then this means the other battles are…
Curse Kabuto, he's failed.
Hey, what are you looking at? We're still fighting!
Looks like the Reanimation Jutsu has been released.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Reanimation Jutsu: Release!"
So what of it?
REANIMATION JUTSU: RELEASE!
Tune in again!